---
template: blog-post
title: Transform Your Website
slug: transfrom-your-website
date: 2020-10-25 21:30
description: Transform your website
featuredImage: /assets/meagan-carsience-qgnm_f_nd1e-unsplash.jpg
---
When you visit a website, the website will usually look one or two ways. It will either look like an exciting website that makes you happy to have visited it, or it’ll look like a dull website that’ll make you want to leave as soon as possible. It’s not the end of the world if your website is boring, as long as it has all of the information it needs and as long as it does everything it’s supposed to then it works just fine. But no one wants to visit a poorly made website that just regurgitates the information back at you, people want to visit a website that excites them. That’s why it’s important for web developers to work on being able to style the websites they make; it makes the users happier and it also makes their website look more professional. One CSS property that can look very impressive when used correctly is the CSS transform property. The CSS transform property can be used to change the appearance of pictures or elements in HTML. The CSS transform property isn’t used on it’s own, it’s used with a lot of different sub properties. These sub properties are what gives CSS transform the ability to change elements.

The CSS transform properties can do a variety of different things, some of them being two-dimensional changes and some of them being three-dimensional changes. Two dimensional transform changes make changes that affect an two-dimensionally. There are five different transform properties that change an element’s form, they are: translate, scale, skew, matrix and rotate. The translate property is used to change the position of an element. This property takes two parameters; one parameter is used to tell how far right an element should move and the other parameter is used to tell how far down an element should move. Another two-dimensional transform property is the rotate property. This property is pretty self-explanatory; it causes the element to rotate. This property accepts one value of type degrees, if the value is positive then the element rotates clockwise and if it’s negative it rotates counter-clockwise. A third transform property to use is the scale property, which is actually made up of three different properties. The first scale property is the scaleX property, which uses a number as a scale that tells how wider or thinner an element should be. The second scale property is the scaleY property, which uses a number as a scale that tells how taller or shorter an element should be. And finally there’s the scale property, which takes two numbers to do the two previous properties at the same time. Another transform property is the skew property, which allows you to skew an element across the ‘x’ and ‘y’ axis. When you skew something the top or side of the element goes one way and the opposite top or side goes the other way, which can create a really interesting effect on an element. The skew property takes two properties, one is for a skew of the width and one is for a skew of the height. And also like the scale property, there’s also a skewX and skewY property. Finally, there’s one big CSS transform property called matrix which allows you to set all of transform’s other properties all at once.

As I mentioned in the beginning of the last paragraph, transform properties aren’t just two-dimensional, they can also be three dimensional. Transform’s three-dimensional don’t have their own unique property names which is really nice, they’re some of the same properties as transform’s two-dimensional properties. These properties are translate, scale, rotate and matrix. The difference between these four and the two-dimensional transform properties is that they deal with the z-axis of an element, their property names are actually translateZ, scaleZ, rotate3d and matrix3d. The translateZ property moves elements closer and further away from the screen, the scaleZ property makes an element look bigger or smaller. The rote3d and the matrix3d also do the same things as their two-dimensional siblings, except they do them in a three-dimensional way. These two and three dimensional transform properties are great for creating interesting effects that’ll make your website more interesting to look at. Thanks to these amazing properties in CSS, web developers are able to make their websites fun to look at. Transform two-dimensional and three-dimensional properties can help you make elements in your website look however you want them to look. If you’re able to master these properties and use them correctly in your website, your website will never be boring again.