---
template: blog-post
title: "Self Hosted Fonts: The Good and The Bad"
slug: self-hosted-fonts-the-good-and-the-bad
date: 2020-09-27 21:01
description: "Self hosted fonts: the good and the bad"
featuredImage: /assets/photo-1551739440-5dd934d3a94a.jpg
---
When designing a website using html, one of the biggest design choices you’re presented with is choosing your font. The words in your website are how the user gets information, so it’s important to choose a good font that will get and keep their attention. One of the first ways that we’re taught to choose fonts is by going to a content delivery networks (CDNs), such as Google Fonts, and getting a link to put in your HTML to use one of their fonts. But is there another way to get fonts? Self hosting fonts is another, possibly better way to get fonts. The first way I described involves having your website access a font through a third party, such as Google Fonts. There is access to the font in your code, but the user doesn’t see your font without the website first getting it from the third party.
	Self hosting fonts works differently. Instead of the website kneading to retrieve the font from a third party, the font is instead downloaded on the server for the website to use without a third party. This can be done with Google Fonts or other websites with downloadable fonts. You might be wondering why you would self host fonts instead of just providing a link, well there are some benefits about self hosting to consider. Some of these benefits include better privacy, better security, better performance, and offline availability. Some of the reasons for these benefits are because of how self hosted fonts have less code, and they don’t give the users cookies. Another benefit is that the font will never change; if you use a link to get a font there’s a possibility that the owner of that font might change it on their website and mess up your code.
	After reading those reasons it might seem like using self hosted fonts is a no brainer, but there are some negatives. One of these is that it takes more time and effort to use, it’s not as easy as just using the Google Fonts link. Self hosted fonts also come with higher latency, big networks like Google’s have a very low latency. And finally, it’s less likely that the fonts are cached. If fonts are gotten from Google it’s more likely that the user has cached the right resources for it. Self hosted fonts are very useful, but they’re not for everyone. It all depends on the project you’re working on, but if the scenario calls for it I would highly recommend using it.